# DASCH-Log-Book-Re-formatter
Harvard College Observatory Log Book Re-formatting tool.
Author: Bill Robinson
This application is the intellectual property of the Harvard College Observatory.

Digital Access to a Sky Century @ Harvard ("DASCH", http://dasch.rc.fas.harvard.edu/project.php) is an ambitious project to digitize all of the Harvard College Observatory (HCO) non-digital astronomical photographs.  For about a century, prior to the use of digital cameras, HCO telescopes imaged the sky and recorded these optical images on glass plates.  This century's worth of imaging data is vitally important to worldwide scientific efforts to understand how astronomical objects change over time.  Digitizing the images helps preserve them, as the chemical emulsion on the glass deteriorates over time, and the glass plates themselves are fragile.  Digitizing the images also enables the entire library of images to be more readily available online to the world scientific community (http://dasch.rc.fas.harvard.edu/index.php).

The DASCH team is comprised largely of volunteers, and the author of this application was priviledged to be an voluntary member of that team.  This log book re-formatting application was created to assist in the efforts to digitize text from log books that accompany the image plates.  These log books contain columns of data, hand-formatted and hand-written by the actual astronomers (some quite famous) making the observations and creating the image plates.  The log book entries have been photographed and stored in digital form as images, but there is also a need for these hand written notes to be recorded digitally as text, so that they can be easily searched.  To this end, volunteers manually read the log book entries and type them into a digital log book.  As can be imagined, this is quite tedious work.  One of the challenges of the effort is that only some of the columns of data in the log books need to be entered as text, and each page is not exactly formatted the same, with columns of varying widths.  Having to jump across a page to get the information required makes the process more time-consuming and error prone.

This log book re-formatting application allows data entry volunteers to load up log book page images and easily crop only the columns of data required, with pixel resolution. Clicking the "Load" button allows image files to be browsed for and selected.  Default column cropping locations are loaded, and the user is able to change these to suite the particular page image, and then crop and save the new image(s).